#### Two Month Recap

Ok, so I've admittedly not really kept up with this for the summer,
and there is a lot to catch up on. Most of it has a been a result of being
tired after work, and most of the time after work was spent playing guitar
and procrastinating studying for my Math GRE (more on that later).
Overall, I thought the internship was a fun time, and I really enjoyed my
time at Alexa Weather! That being said, I don't think I did nearly enough
math over the summer, and I'd be lying if I said I didn't miss my math friends
back in Austin, and I'm happy to be back on working on my studies, and it seems
like I have a fun semester ahead of me.

To be honest, I don't think there was anything too spectacular in the two month
gap between posts, but I'll try to give a rough summary. Obviously, most
of that time was spent working, and after the internship ended I had
about two weeks at home before coming back down to Austin. During those two
weeks, I turned 21 (so I'm going wild with the alcohol consumption, of course)
and two days before I was going to head back to Austin, my computer broke.
We had to send it off for repairs, and I was essentially computer-less for the
first week of school, until it finally returned today. Reunited with my
computer, I am again a functioning human being. I also took the general GRE
last Saturday, which I think went fine, pending my writing scores.

Regarding classes, I'm currently registered for algebraic topology,
programming languages, AI, general relativity, and a conference course
with Professor Freed. It seems like the biggest time sinks are probably going
to be algebraic topology and the conference course, and I'm a bit conflicted
as to whether I want to drop the relativity class. Judging from the first two
lectures, I really like Professor Killic, and I think the class might allow
me to see some interesting applications of the Riemannian geometry I learned
last semester, but I'm a bit hesitant to add another class' worth of work
to my plate, especially since I need to spend time studying for the math GRE
and doing grad school applications.

Regarding the conference course with Professor Freed, I think we hit the ground
running with some interesting problems. The first meeting consisted of a
review of some linear groups, with a focus on the orthogonal groups
$O(2)$, $SO(2)$, $O(3)$ and $SO(3)$, which makes sense since we wanted to
explore the concept of spin, which arises from these groups. Even though
I knew about most of these groups before, I don't think I really got my hands
dirty with them, and we ended up getting a much better grasp regarding
the "shape" of these spaces. For example, we found out that
$SL_2\mathbb{R} \cong S^1 \times \mathbb{R}^2$, and I finally got my hands
dirty with the double cover $S^3 \to SO(3)$ via rotations by a quaternion,
which I hadn't really done before.

#### Upcoming plans

I have a programming languages assignment due next week, and one for relativity.
Both seem like they won't take up *too* much time, but it's early in the
semester, and I don't expect this to be indicative of their actual difficulty.
I especially think that relativity will ramp up, since we're just reviewing
special relativity for the first few lectures. That being said, I feel like
that if I did stay in the class, I'd probably be more prepared than many
physics majors once we start doing general relativity, since I have some
experience with covariant derivatives, tensors, and curvature from my time
with Riemannian geometry with Professor Neitzke. I also plan to dedicate
a lot of time to thinking about the problems posed by Professor Freed in
our weekly meeting.

#### What am I listening to?

Over the last two months, I started listening to a lot of Jimi Hendrix, and
am currently working on learning a few songs, like *All Along the Watchtower*,
*Stone Free*, and his rendition of Bob Dylan's *Like a Rolling Stone*. I
also managed to see Paramore live while I was in California, which was a great
time, and I'm listening to a few more songs off their recent album which have
grown on me quite a bit. Some favorites right now are *Caught in the Middle*
and *Idle Worship*. I also listened to Mitski's new album *Be the Cowboy*,
which I really liked. One of my favorites on that one is *Nobody*.
