I've been working on some notes for the differential geometry lecture
series I'll be giving next semester (you can find them
[here](https://github.com/JeffJiang42/Math-Notes/blob/master/DiffGeoLectureSeries/main.pdf)) and I've been test driving using
[Atom](https://atom.io) as the text editor for typing up the TeX files. I
used TeXMaker before, and for most purposes it was fine. For being a CS
major, I'm actually surprisingly bad at using a computer -- For example, I
don't know most of the shortcuts for Vim, which frustrated my OS buddy
quite a bit. Likewise, I usually use Atom when I code, but don't take
advantage of most of the features (e.g. git integration, multiple cursors,
etc.). I often joke that I use Atom like a glorified version of Notepad.
That being said, I figured this break would be a good chance to try
something new and get more familiar with Atom. Here's my setup as of now:

* language-latex -- An Atom package for Syntax highlighting
* latex-autocomplete -- An Atom package for Autocompletion
* PDF-view -- A PDF viewer built-in to Atom
* latexmk -- a compiler for LaTeX. I currently have it setup to
continuously compile the source whenever it notices a change, and have
it running in the background in a terminal window. in `~/.latexmkrc` I
have

~~~~
$pdf_update_method = 2;
$pdf_previewer = "atom";
$pdflatex = "PDFlatex -synctex=1 -halt-on-error %O %S";
$view = 'none';
$pdf_mode = 1;
@generated_exts = (@generated_exts, 'synctex.gz');
~~~~

So far, I'm pretty pleased. Some advantages I've noticed:

* Multiple panes -- I can have the PDF open in one pane, and my source
code in another. This is like the PDF preview in TeXMaker, which I liked.
However this one is more flexible, since I can have multiple tabs per
pane.
* Autoupdates - Instead of having to compile every time to check a change,
the PDF viewer in Atom automatically updates whever a change is detected.
My default PDF viewer Skim also has this, which I like a lot.
* Projects with multiple files -- I can use latexmk to compile the
main TeX file, which might have several include statements, and preview
that output. In TeXMaker, I would have had to switch to the `main.tex`
file and compiled that, before switching back to the TeX file I was
working on.
* Snippets -- You can customize snippets in Atom in the `snippets.cson`
file. Snippets are like keyword triggered shortcuts. You can set up a
certain keyword, and then press tab to instantly fill in whatever you
desire. In addition, you can specify different snippets for different file
extensions, so I can have separate snippets for `.tex` files, `.py` files,
`.js` files, and so on. For `.tex` files, I currently have

~~~~
'.tex':
  'Definition Environment':
    'prefix': 'defn'
    'body': '\\\\begin{defn} \n\n\\\\end{defn}'
  'Theorem Environment':
    'prefix': 'thm'
    'body': '\\\\begin{thm} \n\n\\\\end{thm}'
  'Exer Environment':
    'prefix': 'exer'
    'body': '\\\\begin{exer} \n\n\\\\end{exer}'
  'Proof Environment':
      'prefix': 'proof'
      'body': '\\\\begin{proof} \n\n\\\\end{proof}'
  'tikzcd Environment':
      'prefix': 'tikzcd'
      'body': '$$\\\\begin{tikzcd} \n\n\\\\end{tikzcd}$$'
  'Example Environment':
      'prefix': 'exmp'
      'body': '\\\\begin{exmp} \n\n\\\\end{exmp}'
~~~~

Which allows me to quickly create environments. I'll probably add more
snippets as I figure out what kind of patterns I end up typing on a
regular basis.

I'm pretty happy with this setup now, and may continue using it in the
future.
