#### Weekly Recap

Aside from a single class day on Monday, the past week was the last week of classes.
Most of the homework is done, so I've been dedicating most of my energy to my applications
for graduate school. It's mostly done at this point, but I plan on going through
my personal statement (disjoint from the statement of purpose -- confusing, I know)
and cleaning that up a bit, as well as doing one more read over my statement of purpose.
I also need to study for my final exams, which I will have at the near the end of this
upcoming week. I have the misfortune of applications being due at the same time as my
exams, so I'll need to get the application stuff sorted out as soon a possible to save
time to study.

#### Future Plans

In the immediate future, studying and submitting all of my applications. For the
break, I'm looking forward to having some time to relax and play guitar, though
there's definitely going to be some math to do as well. In addition to the things I've
listed on the about page, I want to do some reading to prepare myself for my thesis
with Professor Freed. Our current plan is to do it on Dirac operators, which
we also touched on at the end of the conference course. One thing I think I'll
need to know is a better understanding of functional analysis. In particular,
I want to be more familiar with Banach and Hilbert spaces in the infinite dimensional case,
since my analysis is a bit rusty at the moment. The reason I want to read up on these spaces
is because the Dirac operator is a "square root" of the Laplacian, which means that
some functions spaces and spectral theory will inevitably show up next semester.

We've mostly talked about Dirac operators so far in Euclidean space $\mathbb{E}^n$,
but some of this knowledge will be transferred over to manifolds in the near future.
On Euclidean space, we have the Laplacian

$$ \Delta = - \left( \frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2} + \frac{\partial^2}{\partial y^2} \right)$$

This might be the negative of the Laplacian you're usually familiar with, but it's
a convenient sign convention to use, since it makes all the eigenvalues positive,
and agrees with a more general operator on differential forms. A *Dirac operator*
is a first order differential operator $D$ such that $D^2 = \Delta$. Therefore,
we can write $D$ as a linear combination

$$D = a\frac{\partial}{\partial x} + b\frac{\partial}{\partial y} $$

Okay, well we need $D^2 = \Delta$, so let's expand that out.

$$ \Delta^2 = a^2\frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2} + ab \frac{\partial^2}{\partial x \partial y} + ba \frac{\partial^2}{\partial y \partial x} + \frac{\partial^2}{\partial y^2} $$

Let's take inventory of what we need -- we certainly need to $a^2 = b^2 = 1$,
so real numbers certainly won't work for $a$ and $b$, so our next hunch is to use
complex numbers. But then this would imply $a = b = i$, which also won't work,
since the mixed terms won't vanish. Since mixed partials commute, we see that
in order to make the mixed term disappear, we need $ab = -ba$. There's a
very convenient algebra that we've studied all semester that has this property,
namely the *Clifford algebra*. If we fix an orthonormal basis $\{ e_1, e_2 \}$ for $\mathbb{R}^2$, then

$$D = e_1\frac{\partial}{\partial x} + e_2\frac{\partial}{\partial y} $$

works! This suggests that the Dirac operator acts on functions to a Clifford algebra,
rather than real valued (or complex valued) functions, and the action on a
real/complex valued function need not be real/complex valued. There's also some trouble
regarding how this operator behaves with coordinate transforms. The main issue is
that all the terms involved are contravariant objects, so $D$ as we've defined it
doesn't behave well with coordinate transformation (the jargon geometers like to say is
that it doesn't transform *tensorially*). Therefore, we can easily convert one of
these terms to a *covariant* one by raising an index, i.e. passing to the Clifford
algebra of the dual. This gives us the definition

$$D = e^1\frac{\partial}{\partial x} + e^1\frac{\partial}{\partial y}$$

which does transform tensorially! We've only scratched the surface of the theory
of Dirac operators during the last two weeks, but I'm very excited to learn more about
these next semester!

#### What am I listening to?

Still mostly pop, but I've discovered another Hendrix song I really like,
[Villanova Junction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L_x7Xl0yV0E), and I plan
on trying to learn this one over the break.
