#### Weekly recap

After a long and exhausting semester, I finally got a week to relax. I spent
a large portion of it just sleeping and lounging around, but I also got some
time to hang out with some friends and visit my old high school teachers. I
also did a bit of reading through *The Rising Sea*, though not as much as I
wanted. The first chapter is category theory, which has a different "feel"
compared to the math I usually do, so I've been wrestling with the concepts
of universal properties and fibered products. I think the categorical mindset
is pretty interesting and useful though. Through a theorem called [Yoneda's Lemma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoneda_lemma),
it was proven that understanding an object (e.g. a group, ring, vector space)
is equivalent to understanding all of the maps of the object. It's a very functional
way of looking at things, since understanding something is more about understanding
how it interacts with other objects, and how other objects interact with it. In
some sense, it's how you *should* think about things (and you probably already do).
For example, you probably think of objects in terms of what you do with them, and
what they do to affect the world e.g. a guitar makes noise, I swing a baseball bat,
and so on. I think this also ties quite heavily into programming, since one
of the fundamental questions when designing the layout of your code ends up
being "What should this piece of code do, and how should other bits of code
affect it?"

I have also left my home state of Texas for beautiful Sunnyvale, where I'll
be interning the next three months. My first day is on Monday, so there's some
anxiety there. My hope is that I will have the energy to continue the rigorous
reading schedule I set for myself this summer, in addition to preparing
for the GRE and GRE Math Subject Test. Finally, I hope that there will still be
time to relax, which at this point seems like a tall order. That being said,
overworking myself over the summer sounds like a terrible idea, so I'll try
my best the prioritize some relaxation time.

#### Upcoming plans

The plan for the next week is pretty simple -- get acquainted with
my new work environment, and if time/energy permits, do some reading.
I want to finish up with  *The Rising Sea* so I can tackle some things that
I find more interesting, like complex geometry and Hodge theory. I also
want to practice some guitar, which will be a good excuse to force myself
to relax. I recently picked up the riff to Chic's [Le Freak](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RAYQTfFh4xk)
which is really fun, but I'm not quite fast enough. Without the weekly deadlines
of school, it's harder to make this section different every week, since I think
it will end up being something like "I need to do some work, and I want to read
some math." I'm not that great at setting explicit deadlines for myself, so
maybe I can use this section to develop that skill by forcing myself
to set some deadlines to make this section less samey.

#### What am I listening to?

In the same vein, perhaps adding this section will encourage me to
find more music to listen to. I have a bad habit of finding around 5-10 songs
(usuall pop) and then listening to them on repeat for 2+ months. Perhaps
the fear of writing the same songs over and over again here will force
me to explore a little more.

With that out of the way, I've recently gotten into a bluesier style of music
lately. Playing guitar and finding a few covers has given me a new appreciation
for songs like [Little Wing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ru_mlNYjBOU) and
for artists like Stevie Ray Vaughan,
who I've been listening to a lot more recently. Two favorites as of now
are [Crossfire](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F73EcycGCO8) and his
cover of the Jimi Hendrix song [Voodoo Child (Slight Return)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sF2ZqlPNuqU).
