#### Weekly Recap

This week was pretty hectic. I sent out a majority of my applications for graduate
school, and took two final exams as well. I definitely didn't prepare nearly as
much for my exams this semester as I would have in the past, but hopefully I did
alright on those exams. I have one more exam left, so I'll do a little studying
tonight, and tomorrow morning, and hopefully that will be sufficient. I'm looking forward
to going home and having the application process be over. That being said, I'm probably
going to stress over thinking about what schools I get it, even though it's mostly
out of my control at this point. Beyond filling out applications and studying for
exams, nothing too interesting has happened this week.

#### Future Plans

I have a whole list of things I want to do over the break, and I'm pretty sure I won't
get them all done, but it's nice to have a list of things to do. As I mentioned before, there's
some reading to be done over Banach and Hilbert spaces. A new development is that
one of the graduate students here (my DRP mentor), has wanted to learn some
representation theory stuff, and we're planning on reading up on it and working
though some exercises together. The representation theory of Lie groups and Lie
algebras is something that both of us have put off for some time, so it's nice to
have a buddy to work through some of the details with. I'll probably do some preparation
for that over the break. In addition, I'm going to be one of the lecturers for
a mini course on differential geometry the math club is running next semester, and I
want to prepare some stuff for that. I'll have two lectures (roughly 1 hour each),
and the current plan is to cover the basics of smooth manifolds (e.g. definitions,
tangent vectors as derivations, etc.) in one lecture, and multilinear algebra and differential
forms in the other one. I'm doing this with a friend of mine, who will be giving lectures on
vector fields, flows, and basic Riemannian geometry. I want to prepare some notes for
these lectures, so I can make them available to the math club after the lecture, as
well as for my own reference. I think this will be pretty fun, and it will be cool
to share my interests of differential geometry for the math club. In addition, my
hope is that this lecture series will give the math club members enough of a
background to understand some of the more advanced talks given to the math club.

#### What am I listening to?

Nothing particularly new here, but I will be adding [Texas Flood](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVjdMLAMbM0)
to the list of songs I want to learn on guitar.
