#### Weekly Recap

I've been pretty good with keeping up with this again, which I hope will continue
into the break, next semester, and (hopefully) graduate school. I've sent out most
of my materials to my letter writers at this point, and plan on having the emails
sent to them with the instructions on how to submit their letters. Hopefully nothing
goes wrong, but I'll have enough time to check in if anything goes wrong.

Regarding this week's events, I gave a talk yesterday for the Directed Reading Program (DRP)
I'm not the best speaker, forgot some details, and probably didn't give enough pictures,
but overall I think it went pretty well. The other talks in my room were pretty interesting as well.
There was another talk concerning cobordisms (though this one dealt with Topological Quantum Field Theories),
as well as an intersting talk proving a number theoretic result, namely Bézout's lemma, using
oriented intersection theory on the torus. I found the latter quite cool, even though
it triggered PTSD from my time in differential topology. The DRP offers participants
a free book every semester, and I received mine from my mentor yesterday -- a copy of
*Characteristic Classes* by Milnor and Stasheff. I don't know too much about characteristic
classes, so hopefully I can find the time to read the book soon! From what I've heard,
characteristic classes are a sort of functorial assignment of vector/principal bundles
over manifold to the cohomology of the manifold, and is important in computing
invariants of the manifold.

In addition, we had another meeting with Freed, which had produces some very enlightening
questions about the Dirac operator on Euclidean space, as well as the idea of the
reduction of structure group over a manifold. He didn't give us the details (since that would
spoil all the fun!), so I have to think about those a bit before our next meeting.
It's sad to think that the next meeting is the last, but at least I'll be able to
see him again next semester as I work on my thesis.

#### Future Plans

I need to wrap up my personal statement, which is separate from the statement
of purpose, and a bit confusing to me. I've been stuck recently, but I hope to power
through it this weekend, and then go through an ocean of edits. In addition,
I need to write stuff specific to each school, which will be a part of my statement of purpose.
Doing this involves looking through departmental web pages for mathematicians whose work
interests me, and I also plan do get a big chunk done this weekend. In addition,
I have the last algebraic topology homework to do, though this might get pushed into the week.

In the distant (i.e. in 3 weeks or so) future, I want to do some reading on functional analysis,
namely the theory of Banach spaces. I haven't done too much analysis recently, and want
to get comfortable with infinite dimensional spaces, since my thesis will need some knowledge
of this.

#### What am I listening to?

Mostly pop still while I work, but I recently listened to [Lenny](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HEuKbE4MXPE)
by Stevie Ray Vaughan. It's a beautiful instrumental piece, and I'm slowly trying to learn it,
which as per usual involves listening to the Youtube video at 0.5 speed, and searching
for every cover I can find so I can watch others play it. My left hand in particular is a
little sore, and my pinky is a bit raw from playing this song, since the first chord
is a killer (at least for me).
