#### Weekly recap

This week was my first week of work, so most of it involved orientation, training,
and setup, which ended up being pretty tedious. In fact, there's still some
setup waiting for me at the end of the weekend, but I expect most of the
setup will be done by Tuesday, and I can start diving into my project soon,
which is exciting. In the process, I met a lot of other interns, which was nice,
and we all got to see the new Star Wars movie about Han Solo. I thought the movie
was reasonably entertaining, and the setpieces were cool, but I'm not that
big a fan. A lot of the dialogue seemed cheesy and campy, and I feel like
too much of the movie was just fan service in setting up the character
they knew, rather than doing anything meaningful or new. That being said,
it was free and entertaining, so I can't complain too much.

On the math front, I've been slowly inching my way through *The Rising Sea*,
and I'm wrapping up the section of limits and colimits now, and headed
off to his small section on homological algebra and abelian categories.
Hopefully, I'll be able to get to sheaves by the end of the next week, but
we'll see. I've been moving at the pace of around one exercise a day, which
I hope to ramp up a bit if possible. I think some of the category theory stuff
here is somewhat cool, but I'd rather get back to geometry after I finish
the section on sheaves, as I have other things I want to read as well.
I think the collimits and limits are pretty cool -- to explain, I'll
try to work through a concept that appears constantly though
something you might know -- the product. Consider the cartesian product
of two sets $A$ and $B$, which is
$$A \times B = \left\lbrace (a,b) ~:~ a  \in A, ~ b \in B \right\rbrace $$
You might just think this is just a set, but it actually comes with more data
that that, namely two maps $\pi_A : A\times B \to A$ and $\pi_B : A\times B \to B$
which map the ordered pair $(a,b)$ to it's component in $A$ and in $B$ respectively.
In addition, what does it mean to have a map $S \to A \times B$ for some arbitrary
set $S$? It is equivalent to giving a pair of maps $S \to A$ and $S \to B$! To
summarize, the data of a product is  another set with a map to $A$ and a map to
$B$ such that for any other set $S$ with maps $f: S \to A$ and $g: S \to B$, we get
a unique map $f \times g : S \to A \times B$ that "agrees" with $f$ and $g$. In
category theory language, this amounts to a diagram commuting. Limits generalize
the idea of an object with maps to other objects in some diagram such that
maps out of the limit object are equivalent data to giving maps out of
each of the objects in the diagram. Colimits, in classic category theory form,
take the diagram form a limit, and flip all of the arrows. The set-theoretic analogue
for the product would then be the disjoint union. In this case, a colimit now
is equipped with maps from all of the objects in the diagram to itself, and
maps out of the objects of the diagram (with appropriate properties that make the
diagram commute) are now equivalent to maps out of the colimit object.

Finally, I'm currently attempting to learn Little Wing by Jimi Hendrix, which
is proving quite challenging, so I hope I'm not in over my head here.

#### Upcoming plans

Plans are to get acquainted with the development environment at work and finish
up the setup process. I want to get started on my project as soon as I can!
I already said that I want to get through *The Rising Sea* so I can get back
to regularly scheduled programming, but I don't want to rush through it, so
I might get bogged down here. In addition, the speed at which I move will
also depend on how much energy I have when I get home from work. In addition,
there might be some activities with other interns, which I don't really want
to miss out on, so math might be lower priority than I thought.

#### What am I listening to?

Obviously, a lot of Little Wing, since I'm trying to learn it! While in the
mind-numbing process of setup, I actually ended up listening to a lot of
Paramore (no shame). I used to say that it was a guilty pleasure of mine, along
with all the other pop I listened to, but I've given up and just accepted that
it's something that I enjoy, so there should be no guilt attached to it. Now
it's just a... pleasure I guess? I find their most recent album
[After Laughter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/After_Laughter) a lot of fun.
Some of my favorite songs of theirs (in no particular order) are:

- [Hard Times](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AEB6ibtdPZc)
- [Told You So](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yw-RPm1uOM4)
- [Ain't it Fun](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFEmTsfFL5A)
- [Still Into You](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OblL026SvD4)

Finally, [here's](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_g2nHEPC1Fc) a delightfully funky
rendition of a song you've probably heard before. 
