#### Recap

The last week has been very busy, a lot of which is because of the looming
deadlines regarding graduate school applications. Early this week,
I asked Professor Freed if we was willing to supervise my senior thesis
for next semester, and he agreed! Our tentative plan is to do an expository
thesis (as most undergraduate theses are) on [Dirac Operators](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirac_operator),
which is a natural follow-up to the material I'm studying with him currently regarding
Clifford algebras and Spin groups. There's a bit of differential geometry review
and functional analysis reading that will have to be in the winter to prepare myself,
but I'm very excited for my final semester. In addition, there's been a lot of
writing and revisions to personal statements and statements of purpose. I always
find it difficult to write about and advocate for myself, but I'm sure this is
a common sentiment among applicants. Finally,
I wrote up an expository piece about Clifford algebras for the inagural undergraduate
math journal, which is a project that one of my friends is trying to kickstart
as the president of the math club. You can find it [here.](https://github.com/JeffJiang42/Math-Notes/blob/master/CliffordAlgebras/CliffordAlgebras.pdf)
Our hopes is that this will become a semesterly thing where undergraduates
can share expository articles, fun problems, etc, along with interviews with
professors and graduate students.

Regarding things I've learned this week, we've wrapped up our discussion on
covering spaces in algebraic topology. The general idea is that a covering
space of a topological space $X$ is another space $Y$ that is in a sense,
"unwrapped." More explicitly, the a covering space of $X$ is the data of a
space $Y$ equipped with a map $p : Y \to X$ such that for every
point $x \in X$, there exists an *evenly covered neighborhood* $U$ such that
$p^{-1}(U)$ is the disjoint union of open sets $V_\alpha$ such that
$p\vert_{V_\alpha} : V_\alpha \to U$ is a homeomorphism. The prototypical example
of this is the map $\mathbb{R} \to S^1$ given by $\theta \mapsto e^{2\pi i \theta}$,
which can be visualized a a twisted line (a helix) projecting downwards onto a circle.
The punchline of the covering spaces section is that covering spaces of sufficiently
nice topological spaces correspond to subgroups of the fundamental group, much
like how subgroups of the Galois group of a field extension correspond to
intermediate field extensions. In fact, many similar correspondences are referred
to as Galois correspondences. In the upcoming weeks, we'll close out the course
talking about homology, which is another powerful algebraic invariant that allows
us to probe the underlying structure of a space, which is in practice
quite helpful, since it is usually one of the easier things to compute (as
opposed to something like higher homotopy groups).

For my conference course with Professor Freed, we're working on uncovering all of
the data that can be unpacked from a $4$-dimesional complex vector space $V$. By
imposing various structures on $V$, (e.g. a volume form, symplectic form,
Hermitian inner product) we can induce related structures on the
second exterior product $\bigwedge^2V$, which helped us compute a bunch of low
dimensional spin groups. We also came to the realization last week that we
don't have many meetings left, which was a little sad. In the last few weeks,
we plan on moving in a more geometric direction (e.g. spin stuctures on manifolds),
as our explorations for the last few months have been more algebraic in nature.

#### Future plans

Due to the statement writing process, I've fallen a little behind on the math, so
the first half of the week will be dedicated almost exclusively to algebraic topology
and the problems Professor Freed has given us to think about. In addition, there
is more writing and revisions to be done for my applications. I've mostly decided
on the list of schools I want to apply to, but there might be a little more
narrowing down to do (I'm at around 15 right now).

#### What am I listening to?

In a rare act of doing something unacademic, I went to a Mitski concert this
Saturday, which was a lot of fun. I'm a fan of her music, and she gave a great
performance. Some of my favorite songs of hers are [Nobody](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qooWnw5rEcI)
and [Your Best American Girl](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u_hDHm9MD0I). I
also recently get into Kero Kero Bonito, which is a fun poppy band. Some favorites
of mine would be [Trampoline](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Qmwsg2pyEc),
[Big City](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_vcfFogzcgE), and [Only Acting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sepcj45774I).
They were in Austin recently, but I had to miss that due to my studies. I had a
few friends that went though, and they said that it was a bunch of fun.
