#### What's this?

Things around here have changed pretty considerably. I figured that if
I was going to have gone through a semester learning React, I should put
those skills to use for myself, so here's the new improved website! In
addition, I found that using the required weekly blog posts as
a time to reflect on what I've done and what I'll need to do was a good
way to end my week, so I plan on keeping it going. That being said, they'll probably
be less structured, since there will no longer be questions I am required
to answer. My guess is that most of the posts will become weekly status
updates, and digressions into whatever I'm currently working on (most
likely math).

#### Plans for the summer

It looks like there's a lot on my plate this summer. First of all, I will
be in Sunnyvale for the majority of the summer interning at Amazon Lab126,
which is very exciting. I have quite a few friends also interning in the valley,
and we have a sizable amount of family friends there, so it should be a lot of
fun, though I'd be lying if I said I wasn't a little anxious. In addition, if
time permits, I'd like to find a few basic graphics/physical simulation projects
to get my feet wet. These fields interest me since they seem to be pretty
heavily tied to differential geometry, which is the branch of math I love the
most. For example, graphics involves a lot of three dimensional rotations,
which is facilitated by the use of [quaternions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quaternion).
Like how the complex numbers encode rotation in two dimensions (think of how
multiplication of complex numbers works in polar form), quaternions do the same
for rotations in $\mathbb{R}^3$. I believe quaternions are used in graphics
due to the speed at which they can be manipulated, since composing rotations
by multiplying quaternions is probably much faster than computing the matrix
product of two matrices in $SO_3(\mathbb{R})$. Something that's a bit interesting
to me is that the unit length quaternions are isomorphic to the special
unitary group $SU_2$, which is diffeomorphic to the $3$-sphere $S^3$. Since
$SO_3(\mathbb{R})$ is diffeomorphic to $\mathbb{RP}^3$, this means that $SU_2$
is the universal cover of the space of rotations, so there's probably some
redundancy in the representation.

Regarding math, I'm currently reading through Ravi Vakil's notes *The Rising Sea*,
which is a text on algebraic geometry. I'm only really planning to cover the first
two chapters or so though, since I want to gain some familiarity with categories and
sheaves (especially sheaves). Whether or not I continue past that is still up in
the air. After that, I want to tackle some complex geometry and mathematical
physics. I've noticed that the majority of math I like (geometry) ends up being
used quite heavily in physics, so I guess I need to take a look and see what all
the fuss is all about. Regarding complex geometry, the interest mostly came
from the reading I did over symplectic geometry over the past semester. The two
subjects come together quite often in objects called [Kähler manifolds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K%C3%A4hler_manifold),
and also in [mirror symmetry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mirror_symmetry_(string_theory)),
so I definitely want to look more into this.

Finally, I want to keep up with guitar. I started last fall, and it's has been
a good way for me to relax when I'm burdened with a lot of work. Over the last
year, I often found myself sitting at the computer thinking about a problem
(usually OS or algebra) guitar in hand. I feel like I've made pretty substantial
progress, and hope to keep it going this summer.

#### Weekly recap

For the first half of this week, I had to prepare for my computer vision final,
as well as put the finishing touches on my take home final for algebra. The
algebra final was pretty interesting, and essentially had us prove the
impossibility of a quintic equation (assuming we can find a polynomial with
Galois group $S_5$ or $A_5$, which we can). I essentially finished that up on
Sunday, and proceeded to procrastinate studying for vision until halfway through
Tuesday. Funnily enough, a lot of the procrastination was really just me doing some
category theory out of *The Rising Sea*, so I guess I wasn't being *too* lazy.
Overall, I think the vision exam went pretty well though, and hopefully
saying that doesn't jinx me. Once that was done, I had a get-together with a
bunch of my friends in math, which was pretty bittersweet since one of my
friends will be graduating and heading off to grad school. Finally, I spent
Friday and Saturday putting my React skills to the test to throw together this
modest website, which was more fun than I expected. Hopefully I don't fall
to the dark side of web development in the near future

#### Upcoming plans

I plan on finally relaxing a bit this week before I head off to Sunnyvale. It
has been a pretty exhausting semester, so it will be nice to have some free
time and play some video games for once. I also plan to hang out with a few
friends before I leave. If time/willpower permits, I will try to do some reading,
though I'll give myself some leeway to be lazy this week. It's always dangerous
for me to do that though, since once I start getting lazy, it's hard getting
back into the mindset of working. Laziness is a lot like inertia in that way.

#### Tip of the week

Don't expect this part to be too common -- a lot of the trouble I had over
the semester was finding a suitable tip/pick of the week. That being said, if
I have anything I find particularly helpful or interesting, I'll put it here.

In the process of migrating from the old blog to this one, one of the things
I wanted to keep was having the blog posts be in Markdown. Since this
website was built using React, this means I had to find a way to render
Markdown files. As per [this StackOverflow post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42928530/how-do-i-load-a-markdown-file-into-a-react-component),
I'm using [marked](https://www.npmjs.com/package/marked). The details are in
the answer, but the setup is pretty easy. In the `componentWillMount()` function,
you can fetch the markdown file, and convert it using `marked()`. Then you
can insert it your component by adding
`<article dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{__html: markdown}}></article>` in the `render()`
method.
