#### Recap

This Thanksgiving break was a bit unfortunate, as the internet at my home went out.
I could have used this as an excuse to avoids some work for a few days, but I instead
went over to a friend's house and worked for most of the break. While that sounds
somewhat sad, I can at least say that the break was pretty productive. I did
a majority of the my algebraic topology homework, and completed my programming
languages assignment, which had me implement functions for type checking. I also
wrote up some talk notes for the Directed Reading Program (DRP) Symposium this
upcoming Thursday. I plan to talking about the Pontryagin-Thom Theorem, which
relates the framed cobordism group with higher homotopy groups. For a space $X$
the higher homotopy groups are homotopy classes of maps $S^n \to X$, where $S^n$
denotes the $n$-sphere. It's a remarkable fact that these are groups, and the
relation with cobordism is equally remarkable. We say that two closed
$n$-manifolds are cobordant if there is another compact manifold that has the
two $n$-manifolds as its boundary. The standard example is a pair of pants,
which is a cobordism from a disjoint union of two circles to a single circle.
Framed cobordism is a little techinical, but encapsulates the same idea of relating
submanifolds of a particular manifold $X$. You can find my notes [here](https://github.com/JeffJiang42/Math-Notes/blob/master/Cobordism/CobordismDrpF2018.pdf).
Finally, I got some applications done, which also involved sending an obscene sum
of money to ETS. I also managed to spend some time with friends, family, and our dog,
which was nice.

#### Future Plans

I need to finish up my algebraic topology homework, and I have a Programming Languages
exam this week, so I'll need to study for it. In addition, I need to work on my graduate
school applications, which involves cleaning up my statement of purpose and my
personal statement. I also need to think about some of the questions Professor Freed
gave us before the break, which I admittedly haven't really thought about too much. Finally,
as I mentioned before, there's the DRP talk coming up, so I need to prepare a bit
for it. I'll give a practice talk in front of my mentor this Tuesday, so hopefully
we can work the kinks there, as well as getting a good time estimate as to how
long my talk will last.

#### What am I listening to?

An obscene amount of mind-numbing pop as I work myself into the ground.
