#### Weekly recap

The last week was nothing too spectacular. I've started actual work on my
intern project, which is nice, and I think things are moving along quite
quickly. There have been a few roadblocks here and there, but I hope to
be finish up debugging what I've done in the next day or two, and then move
onto the next part. I'm still a bit confused by the build environment, which
usually results in wasting a bunch of time looking for permissions or
dependencies. I end up asking my mentor when a few searches doesn't yield any
helpful results, and I really hope I'm not bugging her too much, even though
that's a part of being a mentor.

Math wise, I've wrapped up the first chapter on category theory, after skipping
some of the final exercises on homological algebra. The first chapter took me
much longer than I wanted to, and hopefully working through sheaves won't take
me too much time. That being said, I don't want to rush it, and if it takes me
longer, so be it. Also, I think sheaves are more geometric objects, which will
make it a more pleasant experience for me. The general idea of a sheaf is that
it keeps track of local "gluable" data (usually functions of some sort on
open subsets of a topological space). The general idea is that sometimes you
want to keep track of functions on a space, and have a bunch of local data
(e.g. differentiable functions $U \to \mathbb{R}$, where $U$ is an open set),
that glue and restrict nicely. Why not just consider maps from the whole space
into $\mathbb{R}$? In this case, there is no difference, since every smooth
function extends to a global one using something called a *bump function*.
However, sometimes this isn't true, and only considering global maps throws a
lot of data into the trash. Therefore, we use a sheaf to keep tabs on all of
our local data. Consequently, sheaves encode a massive amount of information.

Outside of work and math, I haven't done anything too exciting. This weekend
I went out to get dinner with some friends, and played a few games (for once),
in addition to wrapping up some stuff for a scholarship.

#### Upcoming plans

I feel like this section will always be quite short, since I usually have
nothing significant planned. There's always work, and I plan to work
though the chapter on sheaves, and as always, I'll try to fit in some guitar.
Other than that, I don't usually think that far ahead, so we'll see what the
next week brings. Maybe the weekend will have some more adventure this week.

#### What am I listening to?

Still a lot of pop while I'm working, though I did spare the time to
check out Father John Misty's new album *God's Favorite Customer*. I
was a big fan of one of his previous albums, *I Love You, Honeybear*,
but wasn't crazy about his more recent album *Pure Comedy*. Overall,
I think the new album sounds pleasant, but doesn't provide anything
new, and doesn't click for me like *I Love You, Honeybear* did. I don't
think there's anything particularly wrong with the album, but I also
don't think there's anything particularly special about it either.
