#### Two Month Recap

I've been really bad at keeping up at this point, but I figured it would be
good to get back into the habit of this. It's better to have one every 2 months
rather than to stop posting altogether I guess. In general, the last two months
have been pretty hectic between doing a bunch of math and preparing applications
for graduate school. Math wise, this semester has been really fun (probably the
most fun I've had so far), as I've been taking the graduate algebraic topology
course and a conference course with Professor Freed. The algebraic topology course
is pretty fun, is is good for intuition building, which I'm notoriously bad at.
I joke that I can barely visualize things in 3 dimensions, but the element of truth
in that joke is far greater than I'd care to admit. In general algebraic topology
is concerned with assigning algebraic invariants to various spaces which can
be used to probe the structure of the space. One of the fundamental ideas of
algebraic topology is *homotopy* which classifies maps up to continuous deformation.
The intuition here is that if I had a straight line, and then wiggled it a little,
the two paths should be roughly equivalent, which is something made rigorous by homotopy.
More formally, two maps $f,g : X \to Y$ of topological spaces are *homotopic* if
you can find a continuous map $F : X \times [0,1] \to Y$ where $F(x,0) = f(x)$ and $F(x,1) = g(x)$.
You can think of this as a continuous family of maps parameterized by the unit interval,
where nearby maps are small perturbations of each other. The first big algebraic invariant
you construct is the [fundamental group](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fundamental_group).
Which is the set of loops based at a point, which has the wonderful property of having
the algebraic structure of being a group. Professor Gordon is also a super cheerful
person, and is always cracking jokes.

The conference course with Professor Freed is also wonderful. We came in with the
rough idea of starting with Clifford algebras and the Spin group and moving on
from there, and for the most part it's been like that. There's been an embargo
on outside sources (where almost all of the things we're looking at have been proven)
so the experience feels much more free form and organic, since most of the problems
build on things we've done in previous weeks, and come more naturally than just getting
a list of exercises every week. One of the things I glad that I'm doing is getting my
hands dirty with ideas and concepts I thought I was familiar with. After constructing a
few things manually, I feel like I have a better grasp as to why certain things should be true,
in addition to being great for building intuition. I'm currently compiling notes/exercises
from our weekly discussions in a document in my math notes repository, and you can view the pdf [here](https://github.com/JeffJiang42/Math-Notes/blob/master/SpinConference/SpinConference.pdf)
Some of the things from the first few weeks are still missing, and there are a few
TODOs sprinkled around, in addition to small errors here and there. I'm really enjoying myself,
and Professor Freed is very good in pointing us in the right direction without flat out
spoling things.

I've also been spending most of the free time fiddling around with the guitar. I don't
have the same amount of time to dedicate to learning a song, but I've learned a decent
chunk of [Bold as Love](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s2ye2WzjiYk) which is a Jimi Hendrix song,
though you might have heard the John Mayer version as well. I've also learned small fragments
of other songs, but nothing too substantial. That being said, it's always nice to strum
on the guitar while thinking about my weekly dosage of math, or as a break from my studies.

#### Upcoming Plans

There isn't too much special in the near future. I expect most of my time to be
dedicated to my algebraic topology homework and thinking on problems for Professor Freed,
alongside doing applications for graduate school. I've been asking around the math department
(grad students and professors) for advice, and in that respect things are going decent,
but there's a significant amount of stress, especially when thinking about the probabilities
of getting accepted into certain schools, along with figuring out how I stand among the
applicant pool. I probably shouldn't think too hard about that though, and focus more
of my energy into making the best applications I can. There's also been some mathematical
soul searching regarding what kind of math I want to do in grad school, but the advice I've
received is that I don't need to worry about that too much. As of now, it seems like
the math I want to do is geometry (with an eye towards differential geometry).
In addition, a lot of the math I do tends to bump into physics in very nontrivial ways,
so that's something I want to learn more about in the future, and many of the math
programs I really want to get into have geometry departments closely tied to physics.
That being said, after a discussion with Professor Neitzke (who does do a lot of physics)
he mentioned that I shouldn't feel 100% obligated to go down the physics rabbit hole,
as many mathematicians do "physics" without knowing a great deal of the physical theory.
Doing all the graduate school stuff really puts into perspective that my undergraduate
career is about to end, which is a pretty surreal feeling. Also one of my friends is
trying to kickstart a semesterly (is that how you say it? Maybe biannual) UT math journal,
and I plan on contributing a small expository piece regarding some of the things I've learned
about Clifford algebras from Professor Freed. A lot of ways people introduce them do it
in terms of quotients of tensor algebras or in terms of universal properties, but there's
a very geometric justification for some of the conditions of the Clifford algebra,
which I hope to be able to convey in my article. 
