#### Weekly recap

This week at work, I spent a lot of time writing unit tests, and then sent in
my first code review! It's nice to fell like I'm doing work at this point,
but it's also a little nerve-racking knowing that someone else will be
judging the quality of your code. Hopefully, I designed and wrote my code
in a way that won't need serious revisions. I've also started looking into
the next part of my project, and think this one will move somewhat faster, since
I'm a lot more familiar with the environment now.

Math-wise, I've been working my way through sheaves, but did not get nearly
as much done as I would have liked. My guess is that it will take another 2
weeks or so to finish up the chapter, and then I can finally move on to
something new. I'm slowing coming to the realization that I probably will
not do as much math this summer as I planned, as I have work, preparation
for GREs (which I have not started yet), and also want to set aside some
time fore fun with friends. I played a few online games with friends back home
in Texas after work this week, and the 2 hour time difference is proving to
be somewhat challenging, since I get back to work around 8:00 pm their time.

Finally, this weekend we went down to San Francisco again. We first went to
CorgiCon, which was pretty fun, since I got to see a bunch of corgis! Somewhat
ironically, I thought that the Shiba Inus I met there were the best part, but
I'm biased since my family has one. We also looked around the parks in the
Area, like the Golden Gate park, and the one near the USS San Francisco
memorial. We did a lot of walking, and a lot of if was uphill, so today I
felt especially sore, which made the outing to Palo Alto more challenging.
Today in Palo Alto, we grabbed lunch, looked around the Stanford Shopping
Center, and checked out the Stanford campus, which is really pretty.


#### Upcoming plans

This week I plan on getting more progress in the next phase
of my project, and also to continue my reading on sheaves (which will
hopefully be more substantial than this past week). I also want to go
see The Incredibles 2 sometime, so that might be something we'll do next
weekend. Some other interns went to go see it tonight, but I was pretty tired.

#### What am I listening to?

This week, I fell into the trap of just listening to a bunch of pop music
on repeat while I worked, so there's nothing new here, just a random
assortment of Taylor Swift, Lady Gaga, and Tove Lo. The one thing to break up
the endless pop playlist on repeat was a period where I listened to some metal.
I listened to *Master of Puppets* by Metallica, an tried an album by a band
called Acid Bath on the recommendation of a friend, which I liked a lot.
Hopefully next week I will find something new to listen to and be more diverse.
