#### Weekly recap

Work this week consisted of digging though a lot of code and dissecting
the structure of the codebase I'll be working on, and making the high
level design of my project. Hopefully on Monday I'll be able to start
writing some code and getting a better idea as to how some of the
pieces fit together. Something that I noticed at work recently is that
I've been drinking a lot more coffee/tea while working now. I don't really
feel like I need the caffeine, so it's a bit curious to me. A lot of times
over the last two weeks I found myself waiting on something to build or
deploy, and while waiting just decided to start sipping some coffee or tea.
I wonder if my intake will decrease when there's less idle time.

I've also been slowly inching along with my reading, finally reaching the
section on homology after finishing reading up on adjoint functors. Homology
comes up a lot in topology, since it assigns meaningful algebraic invariants
to spaces, which make it easier to deduce properties. In this case, homology
ends up being useful in many different fields. As it turns out, in many
different situations, there arises a sequence of maps
$$\cdots \to A^{i-1} \to A^i \to A^{i+1} \to \cdots  $$
where the composition $A^{i-1} \to A^i \to A^{i+1}$ is the zero map. We
call such a sequence (denoted $A^\bullet$) a *complex*. From this complex, we can define the
homology $H^i(A^\bullet)$ to be the kernel of the map $A^i \to A^{i+1}$ mod the
image of the previous map $A^{i-1} \to A^i$. While we have "killed off" a
lot of information in the complex by quotienting, in some sense the homology keeps
the more important pieces, and gives us a more tractable object to work with.
For example, in algebraic topology, you can define the cycle groups
$C_n(X)$ as the free abelian group generated by *all* continuous maps from
the standard $n$-simplex into our space $X$, which is huge. As it turns out,
we have *boundary maps* $\partial_n : C_n(X) \to C_{n-1}(X)$, with
$\partial_{n-1} \circ \partial_n = 0$, so we can compute the homology
of this complex, which is much easier to handle. Another example you may
see here are the spaces of differential forms and the exterior derivative. In
this case, we can take an infinite dimensional vector space of differential forms
and form the *cohomology groups* of closed forms mod exact forms, which are
finite dimensional! Progress on the reading is slow, but I'll probably be able
to finish this section this week and move onto sheaves before going back to
some other things I want to read through.

In addition, this Saturday I went downtown to San Francisco with some friends.
It was somewhat spontaneous, so we took the Caltrain down without any real plans,
so a lot of it was just wandering around. We went to Chinatown to grab some dim sum
and then wandered around Fisherman's Wharf. In the afternoon, we checked out the
Exploratorium (which was pretty cool), before grabbing a train back to
Mountain View, where we had ramen for dinner. Overall, it was a pretty fun trip,
and I imagine that we'll head down there again some other time to see some other
stuff that we didn't see this time.

#### Upcoming plans

I don't think there is anything particular special or different regarding my
plans for the next week. I think it will mostly consist of working, some
math, and some guitar over the weekdays. I might do something fun next weekend,
but I don't really plan that far in advance, so we'll see what next weekend brings
when it arrives.

#### What am I listening to?

Still a lot of Jimi Hendrix! Little Wing, obviously, but I also came across
one of his live performances of Bob Dylan's *Like a Rolling Stone*, which
I though was great. It's really different from the original (like his rendition
of *All Along the Watchtower*). Finally, I still prefer to listen to pop music
while I work, and this week, there was a decent amount of Carly Rae Jepsen's album
*Emotion*. I think many people's view of her music is tainted by *Call Me Maybe*,
but *Emotion* is actually really good, with an 80s synthpop feel. If you can
get over any stigma related to listening to Carly Rae Jepsen, you should definitely
check it out -- you might be pleasantly surprised.
