#### (Not so) Weekly recap

So.. I've missed a few weeks. To be fair, I don't think anything too spectacular
happened in the time, so there wasn't much to say. The last few weeks have
mostly consisted of me going to work, coming home, eating, and playing guitar
until I sleep. I've been getting progressively more tired when I get back from
work, so I've found that there hasn't been that much energy left to do math,
which is really unfortunate, since I had some pretty grand plans at the end
of the spring semester for the math I was going to do this summer.

However, I did go out to eat with some friends, and some notable outings
involved seeing the Incredibles 2 (which is a great movie), and visiting the
Facebook campus with one of my friends who's interning there, which was a
lot of fun. Other than that, the rest of the last few weeks have been pretty
boring I'm afraid, though I did make some pretty good progress on Little Wing.
Almost 2 months in, I'm finally closing in on learning the whole song,
which is about... 2 minutes.

#### Upcoming plans

I've recently been feeling pretty anxious about the prospects of math
grad school, so I've finally started getting around to preparing for
applications and the GRE. I've registered for both the general and the
subject GRE (that's 350 bucks down the drain), and have started studying.
My calculus and differential equations knowledge has gotten embarrassingly
poor over the last two years, so there will have to be more review of
stuff that I learned in high school and freshman year than I would like
to admit.

#### What am I listening to?

I mainly worked to the sound of pop music (as per usual), but I've gotten
in by daily dosages of Little Wing, since I need to hear it to learn it.
One of the Hendrix covers that I listened to a lot was taken down for
copyright claims recently, but it seems to have reemerged, so that was
a relief. You can check it out [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JZXRB9BuLhk&frags=pl%2Cwn)
(you should check out all of the covers on that channel, they are fantastic!).
I also checked out Natalie Prass' recent album, which I though was alright,
but nothing special. That being said, the single [Short Court Style](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0pv7rN-_IWU&frags=pl%2Cwn)
off the album is amazing and super catchy. Overall, I was pretty disappointed
with the album, since her first one was so great.
