First of all, Happy New Year! This year promises to be one of great
change for me, since I'll be graduating in May. I'm excited to see what
lies around the corner.

As an update to using Atom for LaTeX, I've had some troubles with the
pdf viewer package auto-updating whenever there's a change, so I've switched
over to using Skim as the pdf viewer, and having it next to my Atom window,
since Skim has the autoupdate feature built in. This works fine as well,
but is a little cramped, and I still haven't managed to get synctex working
with Skim. In practice, this isn't a big deal, since I never really used that
feature in the past, so it's not like I'm missing out on a crucial feature.

Also, I've managed to get xypic working with MathJax, so I can now draw commutative
diagrams in my posts! For example,
\begin{xy}
\xymatrix {
A \ar[r] & B
}
\end{xy}

this will make certain math concepts way easier to discuss in the future! To
get this working, I needed to get my own installation of MathJax, which allowed
me to use the third-party pacakage [xypic](http://sonoisa.github.io/xyjax/xyjax.html).
This lets me use the xy package in markdown for the blog posts. I used to use
xy for my commutative diagrams, but have recently switched over to tikzcd, so I've
forgotten a bit. For the most part, the diagrams I draw are squares and triangles,
so this shouldn't really be a problem.

In terms of what I've done, I've wrapped up all of my graduate school applications
now, so whatever happens next is out of my hands at this point. I've also
finished typing some notes for the differential geometry mini-course I'll
be teaching, but I might make some changes and add some additional exercises
(in addition to finding typos). I've also looked a little into Fulton and Harris,
and have done a pretty fun exercise on a finite "spin representation." At this point,
I'll probably skip more of the finite group theory and move onto the Lie group section,
since that was my original objective for learning some representation theory.

Music wise, I started listening to the Band of Gypsies live album by Jimi Hendrix,
which is amazing. I'm trying to learn Power of Soul/Power to Love right now, which
is really fun and challenging. I've also learned a little more of Lenny, and
can play a really rough rendition of Wait Until Tomorrow, so I've learned a
decent amount of guitar during this break (and probably not enough math).

Finally, there's a conference at UT celebrating Professor Freed's birthday a week
before classes start, and I'm very excited to attend it! There's a ton of people
coming that do fascinating research, and even though I probably won't understand
a lot of what's going on there, I hope to be able to take away some things from
the experience. I figure if I come out with a few concepts I want to learn and
some intuition into how the speakers approach or formulate the problems, that
should be more than enough!
