In my last semester at UT, I learned a great deal of geometry from Dan Freed from his
gauge theory course and from my weekly meetings with him for my thesis. One of the
things I learned I find particularly cool, so I figure I'd share it. I'll assume some
level of familiarity with principal bundles and connections (though not too much). A
large amount of what I assume is covered in just a few pages of Kobayashi and Nomizu.
<br></br>

Let $M$ be a smooth manifold, and $P$ be a bundle of frames for $M$, i.e. any principal
bundle that is a reduction of structure group from $GL\_\mathbb{R}$ to $G$, where $G$
is some fixed Lie group (for most of my cases, $G = SO\_n, O\_n$, or $\mathrm{Spin}\_n$).
Using the associated bundle construction, we can recover the tangent bundle $TM$ as the
associated bundle
$$TM = P \times\_G \mathbb{R}\^n $$
where the action on $\mathbb{R}\^n$ is obtained by using the map $G \to GL\_n\mathbb{R}$
that is given as part of the data of a reduction of structure group. Any principal
bundle element $b \in P\_x$ then determines a linear isomorphism
$b : \mathbb{R}\^n \to T\_xM$ via the mapping
$v \mapsto [b, v] \in P \times\_G \mathbb{R}\^n$, where we abuse notation by letting
$b$ denote both the map and the principal bundle element. Then given a
connection $\Theta \in \Omega\_P(\mathfrak{g})$, we get a horizontal distribution on
$P$, giving us a notion of a horizontal lift of a tangent vector $v \in T\_xM$ on the
base manifold. We then define vector fields $D\_i \in \mathfrak{X}(P)$ as follows:
given $b \in P$, define the value $D\_i\vert_b$ of $D\_i$ at $b$ to be
$$D\_i\vert_b = \widetilde{b(e_i)} $$
where $e_i$ is the $i\^{th}$ standard basis vector of $\mathbb{R}\^n$, and
$\widetilde{b(e_i)}$ is the horizontal lift of $b(e_i)$ to $T\_bP$. It is easy to see
that these vector fields are linearly independent, so together they give a framing
of the horizontal distribution determined by the connection $\Theta$. One very nice thing
to note here is that everything here is canonically defined (i.e. coordinate free,
modulo the choice of basis for $\mathbb{R}\^n$).
<br></br>

These vector fields have a particularly nice relation ship with covariant
differentiation, which is somewhat expected, since the $D\_i$ were defined
using the connection. Let $W$ be a representation of $G$, and $E$ the corresponding
vector bundle associated to $\mathcal{B}(M)$. We then recall that sections of $E$ are
equivalent to $G$-equivariant maps $\mathcal{B}(M) \to W$. For a section $\psi$, let
$\hat{\psi}$ denote its corresponding $G$-equivariant map. The claim is that the
covariant derivative $\nabla\hat{\psi} \in \Omega\_M\^1(E)$ is given by the formula
$$\nabla\hat{\psi} = D\_i\psi \otimes e\^i $$
where $e\^i$ is the dual basis to the standard basis of $\mathbb{R}\^n$. The first
thing to do here is make sense of what the formula means. Note that an element
of $\Omega\_M\^1(E)$ is a section of the vector bundle $E \otimes T\^\*M$, which is
associated to $\mathcal{B}(M)$ via the representation $W \otimes (\mathbb{R}\^n)\^\*$.
Therefore, a section of $E \otimes T\^\*M$ is equivalent to a $G$-equivariant map
$\mathbb{B}(M) \to W \otimes (\mathbb{R}\^n)\^\*$. The action of the $D\_i$ on
$\hat{\psi}$ produce $G$-equivariant maps $D\_i\hat{\psi} : \mathcal{B} \to W$,
so $D\_i\hat{\psi} \otimes e\^i$ determines a section of $E \otimes T\^\*M$.
Now that the formula makes sense, we verify that it is true. Fix a point $x \in M$,
$v \in T\_xM$, and $b \in \mathcal{B}(M)\_x$. The set $\\{b(e\_1), \ldots , b(e\_n)\\}$
is a basis for $T\_xM$, so $v$ is equal to the sum $v\^ib(e\_i)$. Since the
$b(e\_i)$ lift to $D\_i\vert\_b$, the horizontal lift of $v$ is $v\^iD\_i\vert\_b$.
Then for an integral curve
$\widetilde{\gamma} : (-\varepsilon, \varepsilon) \to \mathcal{B}(M)$ of an extension of
$v\^iD\_i\vert_b$, the projection $\gamma$ of $\widetilde{\gamma}$ to $M$ is an
integral curve of an extension of $v$, so by the definition of the covariant
derivative, we have that
$$\nabla_v\hat{\psi} = \frac{d}{dt}\bigg\vert\_{t=0} \hat{\psi}(\widetilde{\gamma(t)})
= v\^iD\_i\hat{\psi}$$
which implies that $\nabla\hat{\psi} \otimes e\^i$.
<br></br>

Another wonderful thing about the $D\_i$ is that they provide a recipe for constructing
first order differential operators. Let $A$ and $B$ be representations of $G$, with
associated vector bundles $E,F \to M$ respectively. The action of $G$ on $A$ and $B$
gives $\mathrm{Hom}(A,B)$ the structure of a $G$-representation. Then given a
$G$-equivariant map $\sigma : (\mathbb{R}\^n)\^\* \to \mathrm{Hom}(A,B)$, we define
a first order differential operator $D\_\sigma : \Gamma_M(E) \to \Gamma_M(F)$ by
$D\_\sigma\psi = [\sigma(e\^k)]D\_k\psi$. Many of the differential operators we are
familiar have simple representations using these formulas.
<li>The exterior derivative $d$ is given by $D\_\varepsilon$, where
$\varepsilon(v)(w) = v \wedge w$</li>
<li>On a Riemannian manifold, the adjoint $d^*$ to $d$ is given by $D\_\iota$,
where $\iota(v)(w) = \langle v,w \rangle$</li>
<li>As we showed before, the covariant derivative $\nabla$ is $D\_T$, where
$T(v)(w) = v \otimes w</li>
<li>Finally on a Spin manifold, the Dirac operator is $D\_c$, where $c$ is the
Clifford multiplication map $c(v)(w) = v \cdot w$</li>