The last week has been quite eventful for me on the math front, as I was
able to wrap up a question I've been thinking about for the last month, and
also got a better perspective on Dirac operators.

In the last post, I talked about how an isomorphism $\phi: \mathrm{End}(V) \to
\mathrm{End}(W)$ doesn't induce an isomorphism $V \to W$. However, it does
induce an isomorphism $\mathbb{P}V \to \mathbb{P}W$ of projectivizations!
The way we went about it was pretty interesting (to me at least)! Here's
the big piece of the puzzle:

There is a bijection
$$\\{\text{Maximal left ideals of } \mathrm{End}(V) \\}
\longleftrightarrow \mathbb{P}V$$

What is this correspondence? Given a line (i.e. a one dimensional subspace) in
$V$, there is a maximal left ideal $\mathrm{Ann}(L)$, which is the
set of all endomorphisms $T$ such that $T(L) = 0$. This is a left ideal since
given $A \in \mathrm{End}(V)$ and $T \in \mathrm{Ann}(L)$, we have
that $(A \circ T)(L) = A(T(L)) = A(0) = 0$. The next thing to ask is then
whether this is maximal. Fix an ordered basis for $V$ containing a
nonzero vector of $L$ as the first element. In this basis, elements
of $\mathrm{End}(V)$ are represented by matices, and all the elements
of $\mathrm{Ann}(L)$ will be matrices with zeroes in the first column.
To show this is maximal, suppose $\mathrm{Ann}(L) \subset I$ is properly
contained in some left ideal $I$. Then there exists some $M \in I$ such
that $M(L) \neq 0$. In our basis, this implies that the first column
of the matrix representation of $M$ has some nonzero entry in the first column.
Then we can find a matrix $A \in \mathrm{Ann}(L)$ such that the columns
of $A$, along with the first column of $M$, form a basis for $\mathbb{R}^n$.
Then $A + M$ is invertible, so $I$ must be all of $\mathrm{End}(V)$.

Conversely, given a maximal ideal $I$, how do we produce a one dimensional
subspace $L \subset V$? Let
$$\mathbb{V}(I) = \\{v \in V \~\:\~ Mv = 0  \text{ for all } M \in I\\} $$
We claim that $\mathbb{V}(I)$ is one dimensional. It clearly cannot be
zero dimensional, since this would imply that $I$ contains a unit. It
also cannot be greater than one dimensional, since otherwise we could
find a proper subspace $S \subset \mathbb{V}(I)$, and $\mathrm{Ann}(L')$ will
be a proper ideal containing $I$, contradicting maximality. This gives us
maps both ways, where we map $L \mapsto \mathrm{Ann}(L)$, and
$I \mapsto \mathbb{V}(I)$. Then group of units $GL(V) \subset \mathrm{End}(V)$
acts on the set of maximal left ideals by right multiplication, giving a
projective action of $GL(V)$.

Going back, the Spin representations are irreducible modules over the
even subalgebra $\mathrm{Cliff}^0(n)$. Depending on the equivalence class
of $n$ mod 8, the even subalgebra is isomorphic either to $M_n\mathbb{F}$
or $M\_n\mathbb{F} \times M\_n\mathbb{F}$ where $\mathbb{F} = \mathbb{R}$,
$\mathbb{C}$, or $\mathbb{H}$. In the case that it is a matrix algebra,
this gives a projective action of the group of units in $\mathrm{Cliff}^0(n)$ on
the projectivization $\mathbb{FP}^n$, and restricting to the spin group,
this gives a projective representation of the spin group. In addition, the
element $-1$ acts trivially on the maximal left ideals, so this projective action
defines a projective action of of $SO\_n$. In the case the even subalgebra is
a product of matrix algebra, the irreducible clifford modules are just the
irreducible modules of the factors, where the algebra action is given by projecting
off a factor, and then acting in the usual way. By projecting off a factor and
then looking at maximal left ideals, we recover the projective spin representations!
This gives an intrinsic realization of the projective spinors, which can now
be realized canonically.

The other big thing I managed to Pin (pun intended) down was the spin structures
on the circle $S^1$. In this case, $\mathrm{Spin}\_1 = \\{\pm 1\\}$ and $SO\_1 = 1$,
so every principal spin bundle will be a reduction of structure group. In this
case, a principal spin bundle over $S^1$ is a double cover of $S^1$, which
is either disconnected or the connected cover $S^1 \to S^1$ given by
$z \mapsto z^2$, and the spin action is given by $z \mapsto -z$. Denote these
bundles as $P$ and $P'$ respectively. In this situation, the complexified spin
representation is just the sign representation on $\mathbb{C}$ where the group
elements $\pm 1$ acts by the scalars $\pm 1$ on $\mathbb{C}$. The spinor bundles
on $S^1$ are then the associated bundles $P \times\_\{\mathrm{Spin}\_1\}
\mathbb{C}$ and $P' \times\_\{\mathrm{Spin}\_1\} \mathbb{C}$. The disconnected
one isn't too interesting, it is the trivial bundle $S^1 \times \mathbb{C}$,
and the sections $\Gamma(S^1 \times \mathbb{C})$ are equivalent data to
$2\pi$ periodic functions $\mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{C}$. We then know how
the Dirac operator acts on these functions as $i \frac{d}{d\theta}$, so
this descends to a Dirac operator on this spinor bundle, which is
given by $i \frac{d}{d\theta}$.

The case of the connected double cover $P' \to S^1$ is more subtle. Let
$\theta$ denote the coordinate on $P'$, where $\theta \in [0, 4\pi)$, so
the spin group acts by adding $2\pi$ instead of just $\pi$.
and the cover is given by $\theta \mapsto e^\{i\theta\}$.
look at the associated bundle, by definition, this is equal to
$$P' \times\_\{\mathrm{Spin}\_1\} \mathbb{C}^n = P' \times \mathbb{C} \~/\~
(\theta, z) \sim (\theta + 2\pi, -z)$$
You can think of this as an open solid torus, where going around halfway
flips you upside down, and going all the way around twists you back to your
original location. This bundle is also trivial (any rank 2 real vector bundle over
$S^1$ is trivial, and we can also provide an explicit trivialization), but
there's a subtle detail. Sections of this bundle are now equivalent to
antiperiodic functions $\psi: \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{C}$, where $f(\theta + 2\pi) = -f(\theta)$
We can then use the Dirac operator on $\mathbb{R}$, and then this again
descends to a Dirac operator on $S^1$, and it's also given locally by
$i \frac{d}{d\theta}$. However, this is not the same operator! It is a fact
that sections of any associated bundle $P \times\_G F$ are equivalent
data to $G$-equivariant maps $P \to F$, so we can take the global trivialization
of $P' \times\_\{\mathrm{Spin}\_1\} \mathbb{C}$ given by the $\mathrm{Spin}\_1$
equivariant map $\theta \mapsto e^{i\theta}$. We want to see what the
Dirac operator looks like given this trivialization. Using the identification
of sections as antiperiodic functions $\psi : \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{C}$,
we can write $\psi(\theta) = f(\theta)e^{i\theta/2}$ for a $2\pi$ periodic function
$f$. Then we compute the action of the Dirac operator as
$$i\frac{d}{d\theta}\psi = i\frac{d}{dt}\left(f(\theta)e^{i\theta/2}\right)
= i(\frac{i/2}e^{i\theta/2}f + i\left(e^{\theta/2}\frac{df}{d\theta}\right)
= -\frac{1}{2}e^{i\theta/2}f + e^{i\theta/2}\frac{df}{d\theta} $$
So in this trivialization, the Dirac operator is $i\frac{d}{d\theta} - \frac{1}{2}$.
In particular, unlike the Dirac operator on the other bundle, this operator
has its spectrum shifted by $\frac{1}{2}$, which means that $0$ is no longer
and eigenvalue. Therefore, these operators are indeed different when acting on
the space of periodic functions (thought of as sections).
