So after a week and a half of classes, things have started settling down. My
schedule has a had a small modification, where I've replaced real analysis 2
with Professor Freed's graduate gauge theory course. The reasoning was threefold:
I figured that the material in the course would be relevant material for my thesis,
and I also thought the topics covered by the course were extremely interesting.
Finally, Professor Freed is a wonderful lecturer with an immense amount of knowledge
about the field. A course like this isn't taught all the time, so I figured I
should seize the opportunity while I could.

My other classes are going decently as well, but the main things occupying my
time right now are my thesis, reading to keep up with gauge theory, and
preparing my lectures for a differential geometry mini course that I'm
teaching for the math club. Last Friday, I gave my first lecture, which
involved defining manifolds and tangent spaces. The way that tangent
vectors are defined for abstract manifolds are were a bit difficult to
wrap my head around at the beginning, and I hope that I was able to convey
the right intuition. When working with an abstract manifold, you don't
have the luxury of having an ambient space for defining tangent vectors,
so you can't define the tangent spaces as some sort of "best linear approximation"
to your manifold, so you define tangent vectors in a weird way. A <b><i>tangent
vector</i></b> $v$ at a point $p$ of a manifold $M$ is defined to be a linear
map $C^\infty(M) \to \mathbb{R}$ satisfying the product rule, i.e.
$$v(fg) = f(p)v(g) + g(p)v(f) $$
this might be a little weird (I know it was for me!), since a tangent vector is
not just some random arrow, it has an <i>action</i>, a tangent vector eats a
function and spits out a real number, which doesn't seem like something
a vector does. But in a way, you've already seen this before! In $\mathbb{R}^n$,
you think of the tangent space at a point $p \in \mathbb{R}^n$ to be a copy
of $\mathbb{R}^n$ with the origin based at the point $p$, so you can write $v$
as $\sum_i v^ie_i$, where $e_i$ denotes the standard basis for $\mathbb{R}^n$. However,
you can also think of $v$ as a sort of differential operator. Given a vector $v$,
you can take the directional derivative $D_v = v^i \frac{\partial}{\partial x^i}$,
which happens to be a linear function $C^\infty(\mathbb{R}^n) \to \mathbb{R}$!
I plan on following up on this lecture this upcoming friday, where I will talk about
vector fields and flows.

Regarding my thesis, we've been cleaning up a bit of the algebraic preliminaries
that we didn't finish during our conference course last semester. For example,
in the first week I finished the classification of ungraded Clifford modules,
and there are a few more details regarding spin groups that need to be completed.
I've also started typing up some material on Clifford algebras and the Pin and
Spin groups, which should form the first part of my thesis.

Overall, I think things are going pretty well, and I think this semester will be
a lot of fun! There's obviously still some anxiety while waiting about decisions
regarding graduate school, but I think a large part of that will go away
once the uncertainty is gone.
