This past week, I was attending Professor Freed's birthday conference,
[Between Topology and Quantum Field Theory](https://web.ma.utexas.edu/topqft/).
The conference was wonderful -- a ton of people showed up, and there was a
dizzying amount of exciting mathematics being discussed there. Most of the
talks went completely over my head, but it was amazing to see the kind
of mathematics and physics being done, so I still had some takeaways from the
conference. Two of the talks I found particularly interesting were the talks
given by Marco Gualtieri and Emily Riehl. I found Gualtieri's talk interesting
because there was a reasonable chunk that I could understand! His talk concerned
generalized Kähler potentials, and I think the symplectic geometry I studied
a year ago helped me a great deal in understanding the details related to
symplectic and Poisson geometry. Emily Riehl's talk was a more expository one,
where she explained the ideas behind $\infty$-categories, as well as the model
category structure given by simplicial sets. The motivation behind these kinds
of categories is surprisingly simple. In a standard category, you have objects,
and arrows (relationships) between these objects. However, it also makes sense
to talk about arrows between these arrows, which gives us a $2$-category. The
motivation I've heard is in relation to Topological Quantum Field Theories
(TQFTs) and the bordism category. The $1$-morphisms in the bordism category
are bordisms between manifolds, and this bordism itself is a manifold as well,
so it's natural to talk about maps (e.g. diffeomorphisms) between bordisms,
which form the $2$-morphisms in this category. In addition, you can give maps
between such diffeomorphisms, like isotopies of diffeomorphisms, giving us
$3$-morphisms, and so on. It was cool to see these ideas in her talk, and it's
super interesting to see the combinatorial and geometric properties of
diagrams, which I didn't really think of as geometric objects.\

Now that the conference is over, classes will be starting soon (in particular,
tomorrow). I'm currently registered for complex analysis, real analysis 2,
object oriented programming, and my senior thesis, though I plan on sitting
in on the first few lectures of the gauge theory class Professor Freed is teaching.
I'm especially excited for my thesis -- the reading course with Professor Freed
was a ton of fun, and I expect that this semester will be equally fun. In the
meantime, I've been reading Fulton and Harris and studying representations
of $\mathfrak{sl_2}\mathbb{C}$ and $\mathfrak{sl}_3\mathbb{C}$, which form
the building blocks for the representation theory of semisimple Lie algebras.
I've put these things off for a long time now, so it's good to get my hands
dirty, and it's quite fun -- the representation theory is very nice for these
two objects, and I'll finally be able to understand Dynkin diagrams (eventually).
