This past week was the first week of classes, and it will be the last
one for me as an undergraduate. I don't think this semester will be my busiest
one, but I do expect to sink a lot of time on my senior thesis with Professor
Freed. We tentatively decided on Dirac operators as a topic, but there's a
lot of flexibility to decide what the final product will look like, and I
expect that we'll have a better picture of the direction we want to take in
a week or two. In particular, two promising avenues include Dirac operators
on non-orientable manifolds and (if we're very ambitious), an index theorem.

For this week, we're picking up with a problem that I didn't quite resolve
last semester, which concerns the classification of irreducible Clifford modules.
In the real case, the only ones I really know are the cases when the Clifford
algebra is isomorphic to a matrix algebra, in which case the only
irreducible module is the vector space upon which the matrices act. In
particular, I'm not sure how do deal with the case where the bilinear
form is an indefinite signature, so I've restricted myself to an easier problem
by complexifying the Clifford algebra. In this case, I have seen some of
the details this past winter when I glanced in Fulton and Harris. In this case,
we can decompose the vector space $V$ as either $V = W \oplus W'$ or
$V = W \oplus W' \oplus U$, depending on the dimension, and it turns out that
$\mathrm{Cliff}(n, \mathbb{C})$ will be isomorphic to either
$\mathrm{End}(\Lambda^\bullet W)$ or
$\mathrm{End}(\Lambda^\bullet W) \oplus \mathrm{End}(\Lambda^\bullet W')$
depending on dimension. To follow up on this, I'm trying to figure out
which left ideal these modules are isomorphic to, and then figuring out
a way to recover the modules in the indefinite signature real case. My hunch
is that it will require fixing some sort of real or quaternionic structure
on the complex module in a way that recovers the desired bilinear form.

I don't have too much else lined up, so I expect most of my thoughts will be
focused on the thesis for the next few weeks (and probably for the rest
of the semester). I also want to continue learning some things on guitar if
time permits -- I specifically want to go back to learning Lenny. I learned
a bit of the first section, but have taken a break from it for a month
or so, and I want to pick it back up again.
